---
layout: post
title:  "Day 7: Intro to App Dev Chapter 6 - Functions"
date:   2020-02-11 05:21:48 -0500
categories: swiftui
---
*updated 2/27/2020*

## Using functions from two resources

The _Intro_ book does a nice job introducing functions if you don't have any other programming experience. I needed to know more and wanted to practice on some small examples so I went back to _100 Days_. 

As I go through this, I think I'll be bouncing back and forth a lot. The two work well together (at least for me).

## Function syntax

### Passing a parameter

```swift
func favoriteFood(food: String) {
    print("My favorite food is: \(food)")
}

favoriteFood(food: "Pizza")
```

### Returning a value

I like that the return value is declared in the function

```swift
func convertToCelcius(celcius: Int) -> Int {
    let fahrenheit = (celcius * 9/5) + 32
    return fahrenheit
}

let fahrenheit: Int = 0
var celcius = convertToCelcius(celcius: fahrenheit)
print ("\(fahrenheit) degrees Celcius is \(celcius)  Fahrenheit.")
```

### Parameter labels

I'm leaving this one alone for now. I may come back to it later. I'm sure it is useful, but I'm having a hard time seeing its advantage. 

### More than one parameter

This function only displays a string

```swift
func twoToppings(firstTopping: String, secondTopping: String) {
    print("Today's special is pizza with \(firstTopping) and \(secondTopping)")
}


twoToppings(firstTopping: "Ham", secondTopping: "Canadian bacon")
```


Chapter 6 on functions from the _Intro to App Dev_ book was today's topic. Apple used "Row row row" your boat as a way to demonstrate not repeating yourself. It was a good enough introduction and I liked that they showed you how to call a function from another function.

## Bob and Doug's 12 Days

I thought it might be fun to do the do something similar with [Bob and Doug's 12 Days of Christmas](https://www.google.com/search?client=firefox-b-1-d&q=bob+and+doug%27s+12+days+of+christmas). 

Here are the words just in case I really want to do this

I have modifed them a bit so it works better for repetition.

> On the first day of Christmas,
my true love gave to me: a beer.

> On the second day of Christmas, my true love gave to me: two turtlenecks,

> On the third day of Christmas, my true love gave to me: three French toast,

> On the fourth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me: four pounds of backbacon,

> On the fifth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me: five golden touques!

> On the sixth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me: six packs of two-four

> On the seventh day of Christmas, my true love gave to me: seven packs of smokes,

> On the eigth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me: Eight comic books,

> So, like, that's our song, Merry Christmas...

At first glance this offers some nice features for a little programming puzzle. The solution would include

* functions and recursion
* arrays
* loops

I'm going to give it a whirl and see if it would be fun to introduce to the Aheville Coder's League on their puzzle channel on Slack. I think students in my PHP class might like it too.  


