---
layout: post
title:  "Day 8: Intro to App Dev Chapter 7 Boogie Bot; Chapter 8 Constants and Variables and Comments about CSC 118"
date:   2020-02-22 04:44:48 -0500
categories: swiftui
---

Had to take a little break due to some unfortunate outside influences. I actually kinda missed this stuff so I am glad to be back. 

## CSC 118 Notes

The Apple book _Intro to App Development_ has been... well... introductory so I've been concerned about how much students will learn in CSC 118 so I checked the [NC Common Course Library](https://webadvisor.nccommunitycolleges.edu/WebAdvisor/WebAdvisor?TOKENIDX=268947709&SS=1&APP=ST&CONSTITUENCY=WBFC) and it shows there are no pre-reqs. Ok. Fine. But here is the course description

> This course introduces the development of iOS applications and Apple applications using Swift programming language. Emphasis is placed on syntax, object-oriented principles, memory management, and functional concepts of Swift programming. Upon completion, students should be able to develop fully functional iOS and Apple applications using Swift programming language.


"Object-oriented principles, memory management" are pretty advanced concepts for a course with no pre-reqs. 

There is a big difference between the two Apple books on Swift development and I keep wondering if the _Intro_ book is too easy. With that in mind, I will keep forging ahead with it and see where I end up.


## The Boogie Bot

This was a fun chapter and I think students will like playing around with it. Building their own dance routinces will be nice. I'm trying to think of ways to push the exercise a little further.

## Contstants and Variables

Nothing new here other than I like the way Swift handles constants and variables compared to the way PHP does. 
