---
layout: post
title:  "Day 2: Complex Data Types"
date:   2020-01-21 12:53:48 -0500
categories: swiftui
---
# Complex types

Egads! This got difficult quickly. Here is a list of the complex types covered today.

* Arrays
* Sets
* Tuples
* Dictionaries
* Enums
  
The definitions are from 100 Days of SwiftUI

## Arrays

Arrays are collections of values that are stored as a single value.

```swift
let mandolin = "Peggy"
let whistle = "Hug"
let banjo = "Tim"
let fiddle = "Philip"
let concertina = "Charlie"

let sessionInstruments = [mandolin, whistle, banjo, fiddle, concertina]
```

## Sets

Sets are collections of values just like arrays, except they have two differences:

1. Items aren’t stored in any order; they are stored in what is effectively a random order.
2. No item can appear twice in a set; all items must be unique.
3. String values must use double-quotes.

```swift
    let instruments = Set(["Fiddle", "Concertina", "Whistle"])
```

## Tuples

Tuples allow you to store several values together in a single value. That might sound like arrays, but tuples are different:

1. You can’t add or remove items from a tuple; they are fixed in size.
2. You can’t change the type of items in a tuple; they always have the same types they were created with.
3. You can access items in a tuple using numerical positions or by naming them, but Swift won’t let you read numbers or names that don’t exist.

```swift
let name = (first: 'Caitlin', last: 'Nic Gabhann')
```

## Dictionaries

Dictionaries are collections of values just like arrays, but rather than storing things with an integer position you can access them using anything you want.

```swift
let costOfInstruments = [
    "concertina": 5_500,
    "whistle": 2_000
]
```

## Enums

Enumeration (Enum) defines a common type for a group of related values and enables you to work with those values in a type-safe way within your code. [Enums in Swift with Real Life Examples](https://medium.com/@agoiabeladeyemi/enums-in-swift-with-real-life-examples-9fdcda775e99)

This example is too small to really do anything. It is here just for a quick reference.

```swift
enum Compass {
    case north
    case east
    case south
    case west
}

var direction = Compass.north
print(direction)
```

The quiz was much more difficult. I need to review Dictionaries as I tanked the quiz.

I am going to move on to conditionals and operators. These topics were a little advanced and  I need to spend some time working on programming with them.
